# Half-Life.Loess.
| **Command or Variable Name** | **Arguments or Default** | **Category** | **Description**  
---|---|---|---  
+alt1 |  | developer | extra commands for mod authors; not currently used in HL or TFC  
+attack |  | controls | fire  
+attack2 |  | controls | alternate fire (Special Ability Menu in TFC) see special  
+back |  | controls | move backward  
+break |  | unknown | ?  
+camdistance |  | controls | move chase cam away from player (only works if thirdperson activated)  
+camin |  | controls | move chase cam in (forward) only works if thirdperson activated  
+cammousemove |  | controls | allow mouse motion to control chase cam while held down (only works if thirdperson activated)  
+camout |  | controls | move chase cam out (back) only works if thirdperson activated  
+campitchdown |  | controls | decrease chase cam pitch (aim down) only works if thirdperson activated  
+campitchup |  | controls | increase chase cam pitch (aim up) only works if thirdperson activated  
+camyawleft |  | controls | yaw (tilt) chase cam left (only works if thirdperson activated)  
+camyawright |  | controls | yaw (tilt) chase cam right (only works if thirdperson activated)  
+commandmenu |  | controls | open the command menu  
+duck |  | controls | duck (a.k.a. crouch)  
+forward |  | controls | move forward  
+graph |  | controls | enable net_graph display  
+jlook |  | controls | enable joystick-controlled looking around (like +mlook, but with a joystick)  
+jump |  | controls | jump  
+klook |  | controls | use keyboard to look around (see +mlook, +jlook))  
+left |  | controls | turn left  
+lookdown |  | controls | look down  
+lookup |  | controls | look up  
+mlook |  | controls | use mouse to look around  
+movedown |  | controls | move down -- as in swim down, fly down, or climb down  
+moveleft |  | controls | strafe left  
+moveright |  | controls | strafe right  
+moveup |  | controls | move up -- as in swim up, fly up, or climb up  
+reload |  | controls | reload current weapon  
+right |  | controls | turn right  
+score |  | controls | show player scores  
+showscores |  | controls | show pings and scores for all players on the server  
+speed |  | controls | walk if autorun enabled, run if autorun disabled  
+strafe |  | controls | strafe modifier, direction keys strafe while this is held down  
+use |  | controls | use item (switch, scientist, sentry gun, …)  
addip | <min> <ipaddr> | server | adds an ip the server filterban list (0 minutes = permanent)  
alias | <name> "cmd1; cmd2" | scripts | define an alias to a command or commands, i.e. alias jumpduck "+moveup; +movedown; wait; -moveup; -movedown"  
ambient_fade | 100 | audio | set the distance at which ambient sounds fade away  
ambient_level | 0.300 | audio | sets sound level for ambient sounds  
appenddemo | <demo> | demo | record a demo, appending to the demo file already at half-life/valve/demo.dem  
autosave |  | prefs | enable autosave  
banid | <min> <uid> [kick] | server | ban player with id for minutes (0=permanent ban). Add 'kick' after user number to also kick the player off the server. See users, kick, writeid, removeid  
bgetmod |  | server | request batch mod status  
bgmbuffer | 4096 | audio | set the CD audio buffer size  
bgmvolume | 0 | audio | enable CD audio (0 may improve performance) [Flags: a]  
bind | <key> <"cmd1; cmd2"> | scripts | make activate one or more command(s) or variable settings, enclosed in quotes and separated by semicolons. Binding a key to any +command also automatically binds the release of that key to the -command (see alias)  
bitmapfonts | 1 | video | enable use of bitmap fonts (may be easier to read)  
bottomcolor | 6 | net | set the bottom color of your player model [Flags: ai]  
brightness | 1 | video | enable glare reduction (try higher values, like 3, for even brighter) [Flags: a]  
cam_command | 0 | prefs | enable chase cam commands  
cam_contain | 0 | prefs | enable chase cam auto-contain in current room  
cam_idealdist | 64 | prefs | set the preferred distance from the player model for the chase cam (only valid if thirdperson activated)  
cam_idealpitch | 0 | prefs | set the preferred pitch for the chase cam (only valid if thirdperson activated)  
cam_idealyaw | 90 | prefs | set the preferred yaw for the chase cam (only valid if thirdperson activated)  
cam_snapto | 0 | prefs | set the preferred snap interval for the chase cam (only valid if thirdperson activated)  
cancelselect |  | scripts | cancel selection (i.e. what ESCAPE usually does)  
cd |  | audio | control CD audio. 'cd stop' stops play, 'cd loop X' plays track X (1-16 valid)  
centerview |  | controls | centers the view  
changelevel | <map> | server | load the map specified without disconnecting clients from the server  
changelevel2 | <map> | server | load the map specified and continue the current game without disconnecting clients from the server  
chase_active | 0 | prefs | enable chase-cam (third-person view, like TombRaider or Hexen 2)  
chase_back | 100 | prefs | set the preferred cam distance from the player when backing up  
chase_right | 0 | prefs | set the preferred offset to the side for the chase cam  
chase_up | 16 | prefs | set the preferred offset up for the chase cam  
clear |  | misc | clear the console screen  
clientport | 27005 | net | set defail client port (TCP/IP) for connecting to a server (may specify other port with "connect ip:port")  
cl_allowdownload | 1 | net | enable download of maps, models, and decals on joining a server [Flags: a]  
cl_allowupload | 1 | net | enable upload of maps, models, and decals on joining a server [Flags: a]  
cl_allow_download |  | old | replaced by cl_allowdownload  
cl_allow_upload |  | old | replaced by cl_allowupload  
cl_anglespeedkey | 0.670 | prefs | set the speed that the direction keys (not mouse) change the view angle  
cl_backspeed | 400 | prefs | set the player backup speed on a server, up to server max [Flags: a]  
cl_bob | 0.010 | prefs | set the amount that your player view bobs while running. Motion-sick types should set this to 0.  
cl_bobcycle | 0.800 | prefs | set how frequently player view bobs while running. Motion-sick types should set this to 0.  
cl_bobup | 0.500 | prefs | set the the amount of movement before view-bobbing kicks in. Motion-sick types should set this to 0.  
cl_clockreset | 0.1 | unknown | ?  
cl_cmdbackup | 2 | unknown | ? [Flags: a]  
cl_cmdrate | 30 | net | set the number of times per second that the client will update the server. Leave at 30 (or lower) for modems, set to 35-55 for Cable or DSL, 50 for LAN games. [Flags: a]  
cl_dlmax | 128 | net | set the maximum number of kilobytes to download from a server [Flags: ai]  
cl_download_ingame | 1 | net | enable downloads during a multiplayer game (generally not a good thing -- instead set cl_allow_download 1 and this one to 0 so downloads are between maps only) [Flags: a]  
cl_fixtimerate | 7.5 | net | sets the fixed time rate  
cl_forwardspeed | 400 | prefs | set the player maximum forward speed. may not exceed server max [Flags: a]  
cl_gaitestimation | 1 | net | enable estimated player stepping motion -- disable (0) to decrease apparent "ice skating" and possibly increase lag  
cl_gg | 0 | demo | enable Game Gauge mode (gg starts running a demo in gamegauge mode and will report averag FPS at the end  
cl_gibcount | 4 | video | sets the number of gibs to spawn when blowing an enemy to bits. lower or 0 may improve FPS [Flags: a]  
cl_giblife | 25 | video | sets the time in seconds that gibs remain before disappearing. lower or 0 may improve FPS [Flags: a]  
cl_gibvelscale | 1 | video | sets the scale factor for gib graphics. higher may improve FPS [Flags: a]  
cl_hightrack | 0 | net | force a spectator on follow mode (tracking a single player) to always track the highest scoring player (thanks Ken).  
cl_himodels | 0 | prefs | enable high quality player models. Set to 1 for slightly better quality player models (and slightly lower fps) [Flags: a]  
cl_idealpitchscale | 0.8 | unknown | ? [Flags: a]  
cl_latency | 0 | net | set client latency value  
cl_lb | 0 | net | enable client-side blood splat prediction (if cl_lw is 1). If on, hits may look like misses and vice-versa. [Flags: ai]  
cl_lc | 1 | net | enable lag compensation (if server enables with sv_unlag 1) [Flags: ai]  
cl_lw | 1 | net | enable client-side (lagless) weapon animations and sounds. If 1, weapons animation and sounds will fire instantly, but the real shot must be acknowledged by the server to happen, so animation/sounds may not match server reality. Leave on (1) if you have lag compensation on (cl_lc 1). [Flags: ai]  
cl_messages |  | prefs | displays server messages  
cl_movespeedkey | 0.300 | prefs | set movement speed for keyboard movement keys  
cl_needinstanced | 0 | unknown | ?  
cl_nopred | 0 | net | disable client-side prediction (1 may increase lag)  
cl_nosmooth | 0 | unknown | ?  
cl_pitchdown | 89 | prefs | set maximum angle that player can look down (in degrees)  
cl_pitchspeed | 225 | prefs | set pitch (up and down) change speed  
cl_pitchup | 89 | prefs | set maximum angle thaat player can look up (in degrees)  
cl_rate | 9001.204 | net | set rate that client will send data to the server in bytes per second (suggested starting values: 1000-4000 modem, 5000-7000 ISDN, 6000-10000 cable/DSL, 7000-20000 T1, 20000+ LAN) -- bad values cause LAG! turn on the r_netgraph 3 to help evaluate different values, and try non-integers like 4001.0528.  
cl_resend | 6 | net | set resend count (the number of times to attempt to resend packets)  
cl_showerror | 0 | prefs | enable error display  
cl_showevents | 0 | prefs | enable event display  
cl_showfps | 0 | video | enable FPS display (frames per second)  
cl_showmessages | 0 | prefs | enable display of game messages  
cl_shownet | 0 | net | enable display of network packet numbers  
cl_sidespeed | 400 | prefs | set the manimum player strafing speed (may not exceed server manimum)  
cl_slist | 10 | prefs | set the number of servers in the serverlist  
cl_smoothtime | 0.1 | unknown | ?  
cl_solid_players | 1 | prefs | enable solid player models  
cl_spectator_password | 0 | net | set the password for spectator access to a server  
cl_timeout | 305 | net | set the inactivity time before a client is disconnected (timed out) [Flags: a]  
cl_updaterate | 20 | net | set number of updates client will request from the server each second. In general, the more players in the game, the lower this should be. Lower than 12 will cause choppiness, but 15 may be great for some slow connections. Cable and DSL connections may like 30-40, unless there are too many players on the server. FOr lan games, use 50. [Flags: ai]  
cl_upspeed | 320 | prefs | set the player climbing up speed (up to server max)  
cl_vsmoothing | 0.05 | unknown | ? [Flags: a]  
cl_waterdist | 4 | prefs | set underwater distance   
cl_yawspeed | 210 | prefs | set turning speed (with keyoard, up to server max)  
cmd | <cmd> [arguments] | misc | formal way for a client to issue a command to the server -- when using the console, the 'cmd' part may be omitted.  
cmdline | 0 | developer | display the command-line arguments passed by hl.exe [Flags: sv]  
cmdlist |  | developer | print a list of commands to the console (cmdlist log logfile saves the list to c:\logfile); you can specify a mask for the list, such as 'cmdlist a' to list all commands beginning with 'a', etc.  
com_filewarning | 0 | unknown | ?  
condebug |  | misc | enable console debug mode  
condump | <filename> | misc | dump the console to the text file specified  
connect | <ip> : [port] | net | connect to a miltiplayer server with ip address and optional   
console | 1 | misc | enable console [Flags: a]  
contimes | <n> | developer | show n overlay lines (n = 4 to 64)  
con_color | 255 | prefs | set console color [Flags: a]  
con_notifytime | 4 | prefs | set console message notification time (how long messages stay on screen)  
coop | 0 | net | enable cooperative play mode see the coop link on the main page for tips on getting coop working) [Flags: sv]  
crosshair | 1 | prefs | enable crosshair [Flags: a]  
cr_demoman |  | server | set a TFC class restriction to limit the number of players of the class in the name. 0=unlimited, -1=none of that class allowed [Flags: sv tfc]  
cr_engineer |  | server | set a TFC class restriction to limit the number of players of the class in the name. 0=unlimited, -1=none of that class allowed [Flags: sv tfc]  
cr_hwguy |  | server | set a TFC class restriction to limit the number of players of the class in the name. 0=unlimited, -1=none of that class allowed [Flags: sv tfc]  
cr_medic |  | server | set a TFC class restriction to limit the number of players of the class in the name. 0=unlimited, -1=none of that class allowed [Flags: sv tfc]  
cr_pyro |  | server | set a TFC class restriction to limit the number of players of the class in the name. 0=unlimited, -1=none of that class allowed [Flags: sv tfc]  
cr_random |  | server | set a TFC class restriction to limit the number of players of the class in the name. 0=unlimited, -1=none of that class allowed [Flags: sv tfc]  
cr_scout |  | server | set a TFC class restriction to limit the number of players of the class in the name. 0=unlimited, -1=none of that class allowed [Flags: sv tfc]  
cr_sniper |  | server | set a TFC class restriction to limit the number of players of the class in the name. 0=unlimited, -1=none of that class allowed [Flags: sv tfc]  
cr_soldier |  | server | set a TFC class restriction to limit the number of players of the class in the name. 0=unlimited, -1=none of that class allowed [Flags: sv tfc]  
cr_spy |  | server | set a TFC class restriction to limit the number of players of the class in the name. 0=unlimited, -1=none of that class allowed [Flags: sv tfc]  
cvarlist |  | developer | lists all the console variables (cvars) to the console (cvar log filename will send the list to the file c:\filename)  
c_maxdistance | 200 | prefs | set chase cam max distance  
c_maxpitch | 90 | prefs | set chase cam max pitch  
c_maxyaw | 135 | prefs | set chase cam max yaw  
c_mindistance | 30 | prefs | set chase cam min distance  
c_minpitch | 0 | prefs | set chase cam min pitch  
c_minyaw | -135 | prefs | set chase cam min yaw  
deathmatch | 0 | server | enable deathmatch mode [Flags: sv]  
decalfrequency |  | server | set how frequently clients can spray paint their logo [Flags: sv]  
default_fov | 90 | server | set the default Field-Of-View, smaller numbers zoom in, larger numbers zoom out (fish-eye style).  
delta_clear |  | unknown | ?  
delta_stats |  | unknown | ?  
demos |  | demo | runs a loop of demos set with startdemos  
developer | 0 | scripts | enable special developer debug console messages and allow 'echo' to print to the game screen, see console help for details  
direct | 0.900 | unknown | ?  
disconnect |  | net | disconnect from a server or local game  
dlfile |  | unknown | ?  
dropclient |  | server | drop client from server (disconnect)  
dropitems |  | controls | drop the flag (useful for handing it off to a teammate)  
d_spriteskip | 0 | unknown | ?  
echo | "text" | scripts | print a message to the console. To print to screen: 'developer 1; echo "text"; developer 0'  
edgefriction | 2 | server | set friction between players and walls or objects [Flags: sv]  
endmovie |  | demo | the commands 'startmovie' and 'endmovie' start and stop recordding to a video stream, that is basically a bunch of bitmap images in a single file. You use the command like this: From the console type in: startmovie then enter a map using the map command from the console. I have had problems starting up the comand while in a map with the current version of half life but not with the origional CD copy. You need to issue the endmoive command to stop it. Note that this takes up a large amount of disk space. Then you need to compile a program called 'mkmovie' in the valve utils from the SDK (see the misc files section), and use this program to extract all the bitmaps from within the single video stream file. Then you use a program such as Adobe Premiere to string them together into an AVI, or mpg if you have the plugins. Be sure to import them such that their duration is only frame. You need a fast computer to do this properly, if not you will get like 15 frames per second, which is fine for most people, and still gets you a useable ingame video stream. If you have a slow pc, be sure to set the avi to 15 frames per second, but if your pc is fast then 24 or 30 frames per second is good too. Thanks to Evan for that info.  
entities |  | developer | list currently loaded entities  
envmap |  | developer | creates the 6 BMP images for sky boxes from the player's current position. Size is set with gl_envmapsize .  
escape |  | controls | same as [ESCAPE] key, hides console, cancels selection, etc.  
exec | <filename> | scripts | execute a script file of console commands, often have .cfg or .rc extension, though not required. script files can include any console commands and variable settings, see console help for details  
exit |  | misc | quit game or server to windows without confirmation  
ex_correct | 0 | unknown | ?  
ex_diminishextrap | 0 | unknown | ?  
ex_extrapmax | 1.2 | unknown | ?  
ex_interp | 0.1 | unknown | ?  
ex_maxaccel | 2000 | unknown | ?  
ex_maxerrordistance | 64 | unknown | ?  
ex_maxspeed | 750 | unknown | ?  
ex_minvelocity | 0 | unknown | ?  
fakelag | 0 | net | simulates lag, higher values are laggier  
fakeloss | 0 | net | simulates packet loss, higher values are more lossy  
firstperson |  | prefs | enable first-person view (see thirdperson, chase_cam)  
flush |  | developer | flush memory and reload  
fly |  | cheats | One would think this would enable flying, but noclip does insstead. See the cheats page for details.  
ForceCloseCommand |  | unknown | ?  
force_centerview |  | controls | snaps player view to straight ahead  
fov | 90 | controls | set the field-of-vision size. Smaller numbers zoom in, larger numbers zoom out, valid range is 1-179.  
fps_lan |  | old | replaced by fps_max  
fps_max | 72 | video | set the maximum number of frames per second that the game will try to render. Similar to the old fps_modem, but no longer affects network lag.  
fps_modem |  | old | replaced by fps_max  
fps_single |  | old | replaced by fps_max  
fullinfo | <complete info string> | server | enable verbose user information display  
fullserverinfo |  | server | enable verbose server information display  
gamedir |  | developer | set game base directory  
gamma | 3 | video | set video gamma level [Flags: a]  
getcertificate |  | net | authenticates your cd key (by checking it with won.net) without joining a server  
gg | <demoname> | demo | run Game Gauge benchmark using demoname if cl_gg = 1  
give |  | cheats | spawn a weapon, item, or character. See the cheats page for details.  
gl_affinemodels | 0 | video | makes my screen go crazy (Voodo2)  
gl_alphamin | 0.250 | video | set minimum alpha blending level  
gl_clear | 0 | video | makes cracks between textures visible when 1  
gl_cull | 1 | video | enable rendering of visible objects only (0 will slow fps)  
gl_d3dflip | 0 | video | enable reversed rendering order for D3D video mode  
gl_dither | 1 | video | enable dithering [Flags: a]  
gl_dump |  | video | dump data about video card: vendor, renderer, version, entensions  
gl_flipmatrix | 0 | video | enable special crosshair fix when using the 3DNow! 3DFX MiniGL (3dfxglam.dll) [Flags: a]  
gl_keeptjunctions | 1 | video | enable allowing slight cracks between textures, setting to 1 may look better on some video cards, but will be a bit slower (fewer fps)  
gl_lightholes | 1 | video | enable light holes (0 may improve perfomance)  
gl_log | <logfile> | video | writes graphic debug messages to logfile  
gl_max_size | 256 | video | set the maximum texture size (higher may look better, but may slow performance if set too high)  
gl_monolights | 0 | video | creates a uniform light source with no shadows (OpenGL only) [Flags: a]  
gl_nobind | 0 | video | enable replacing textures with bizarre alphanumeric characters (trippy)  
gl_nocolors | 0 | video | disable colors (OpenGL only)  
gl_overbright | 1 | video | enable maximum brightness mode [Flags: a]  
gl_palette_tex | 1 | video | enable paletted textures  
gl_picmip | 0 | video | set rendering quality (0,1,2, higher is faster and lower quality) see gl_playermip, gl_texturemode  
gl_playermip | 0 | video | set player rendering quality (0,1,2, higher is faster and lower quality) see gl_playermip, gl_texturemode  
gl_polyoffset | 4 | video | set polygon offset -- try larger values for flickering decal or texture problems [Flags: a]  
gl_reporttjunctions | 0 | video | enable T-junction reporting to console, see gl_keeptjunctions  
gl_round_down | 3 | video | set texture size rounding-down value (higher rounds more, resulting in lower quality and higher FPS)  
gl_smoothmodels | 1 | video | enable model smoothing. Disabling (0) may increase fps a bit  
gl_spriteblend | 1 | video | enable blending sprite graphics  
gl_texels |  | video | report the number of texesl uploaded to the video card  
gl_texsort | 0 | video | enables brighter and more vivid textures, but slows performance  
gl_texturemode | [type] | video | set the rendering mode: in order from lowest quality (fastest) to highest quality (slowest), [type] options are: GL_NEAREST_MIPMAP_NEAREST, GL_LINEAR_MIPMAP_NEAREST, GL_NEAREST_MIPMAP_LINEAR, GL_LINEAR_MIPMAP_LINEAR. Think of the 1st two as low and high quality for hardware that supports bilinear filetering, and the 2nd two as low and high quality for hardware that supports trilinear filtering.  
gl_wateramp | 0 | video | enable amplified (higher) waves in water. 1 may decrease FPS (see sv_wateramp)  
gl_zmax | 4096 | video | set max size for zbuffer  
gl_ztrick | 1 | video | speeds up renndering on some 3dfx cards (and maybe others), but may cause flickering on some video cards  
god |  | cheats | toggle god mode (invincibility). See the cheats page for details.  
graphheight | 64 | net | set height of r_netgraph/net_graph display  
heartbeat |  | server | send a heartbeat signal to the master server (set setmaster)  
hideconsole |  | controls | hide the console  
hisound | 0 | audio | enable high-quality sound (1=22kHz, 0=11kHz) see also loadas8bit (0 may improve performance) [Flags: a]  
HostMap | 0 | unknown |   
hostname | <name> | server | set server hostname (the name that will appear in server browser lists, if setmaster is set)  
hostport | 0 | server | set host connection port  
host_framerate | 0 | demo | set the speed that host and server interact with the game.   
host_limitlocal | 0 | unknown | ?  
host_profile | 0 | unknown | ?  
host_speeds | 0 | video | enable display of current FPS on-screen  
hpkextract | <name> [all|1 idx] | developer | extract files from hpk file (opts = [all | single index])  
hpklist | <hpkname> | developer | list files in hpk file  
hpkremove | <name> <index> | developer | remove file from hpkfile  
hpkval | <hpkname> | developer | display checksum value for hpk file  
hud_capturemouse | 1 | prefs | enable locking mouse pointer to menu area when menu activated [Flags: a]  
hud_centerid | 0 | prefs | enable center screen display of player ID names (instead of lower-left corner) [Flags: a]  
hud_classautokill | 1 | prefs | enable auto-suicide on class changes [Flags: a]  
hud_deathnotice_time | 6 | prefs | set how long death messages remain onscreen  
hud_drawhistory_time | 5 | prefs | set how long HUD item icons remain onscreen  
hud_fastswitch | 1 | prefs | enable fast weapon switching (0 is HL-style, where you must press fire after picking a weapon before it is activated) [Flags: a]  
hud_saytext_time | 5 | prefs | set how long chat messages remain onscreen  
hud_takesshots | 0 | prefs | enable screen shot saving at the end of all games [Flags: a]  
impulse | 100  | controls | enable flashlight  
interp |  | video | enable frame interpolation  
invnext |  | controls | select next item in inventory  
invprev | 0 | controls | select previous item in inventory  
ip | 0 | server | echo server ip  
ipx_clientport | 0 | net | set client port for IPX LAN game  
ipx_hostport | 0 | server | set host port for IPX LAN game  
ip_clientport | 0 | net | set client port for TCP/IPLAN game  
ip_hostport | 0 | server | set host port for TCP/IP LAN game  
joyadvanced | 0 | joystick | set to 1 before changing any advanced joystick variables, then call joyadvancedupdate to activate changes  
joyadvancedupdate |  | joystick | enable advanced joystick settings (use after setting joyadvanced 1 and making any variable changes desired)  
joyadvaxisr | 0 | joystick | set mapping of DirectInput axis R (typically joystick rudder) -- not used. Valid values: 0 = Axis not used, 1 = Axis is for forward and backward movement, 2 = Axis is for looking up and down (pitch), 3 = Axis is for side to side movement, 4 = Axis is for turning left and right (yaw). Additionally, each axis can be designated as an absolute axis (like a joystick) or a relative axis (like the FPgaming trackball or the WingMan Warrior SpinControl). Absolute axes are defined as having a stopping position whereas relative axes don't have a stopping position and just go around and around. To designate an axis as a relative axis, add 16 to the above control number. For example, to set the Assassin 3D's axis U to be looking left and right, type 'joyadvaxisu 20'. As another example, to make your rudder pedals control turning left and right, type 'joyadvaxisr 4'.  
joyadvaxisu | 0 | joystick | set mapping of DirectInput axis U (custom axis - Assassin 3D trackball left and right, WingMan Warrior SpinControl and SpaceOrb roll). Sets the Assassin 3D to relative turning left and right. (Not self centering). Valid values: 0 = Axis not used, 1 = Axis is for forward and backward movement, 2 = Axis is for looking up and down (pitch), 3 = Axis is for side to side movement, 4 = Axis is for turning left and right (yaw). Additionally, each axis can be designated as an absolute axis (like a joystick) or a relative axis (like the FPgaming trackball or the WingMan Warrior SpinControl). Absolute axes are defined as having a stopping position whereas relative axes don't have a stopping position and just go around and around. To designate an axis as a relative axis, add 16 to the above control number. For example, to set the Assassin 3D's axis U to be looking left and right, type 'joyadvaxisu 20'. As another example, to make your rudder pedals control turning left and right, type 'joyadvaxisr 4'.  
joyadvaxisv | 0 | joystick | set mapping of DirectInput axis V (custom axis - Assassin 3D trackball forward and backward and SpaceOrb yaw). Sets the Assassin 3D to relative free-look up and down. (Not self centering). Valid values: 0 = Axis not used, 1 = Axis is for forward and backward movement, 2 = Axis is for looking up and down (pitch), 3 = Axis is for side to side movement, 4 = Axis is for turning left and right (yaw). Additionally, each axis can be designated as an absolute axis (like a joystick) or a relative axis (like the FPgaming trackball or the WingMan Warrior SpinControl). Absolute axes are defined as having a stopping position whereas relative axes don't have a stopping position and just go around and around. To designate an axis as a relative axis, add 16 to the above control number. For example, to set the Assassin 3D's axis U to be looking left and right, type 'joyadvaxisu 20'. As another example, to make your rudder pedals control turning left and right, type 'joyadvaxisr 4'.  
joyadvaxisx | 0 | joystick | set mapping of DirectInput axis X (typically joystick left and right); allows joystick to turn. Valid values: 0 = Axis not used, 1 = Axis is for forward and backward movement, 2 = Axis is for looking up and down (pitch), 3 = Axis is for side to side movement, 4 = Axis is for turning left and right (yaw). Additionally, each axis can be designated as an absolute axis (like a joystick) or a relative axis (like the FPgaming trackball or the WingMan Warrior SpinControl). Absolute axes are defined as having a stopping position whereas relative axes don't have a stopping position and just go around and around. To designate an axis as a relative axis, add 16 to the above control number. For example, to set the Assassin 3D's axis U to be looking left and right, type 'joyadvaxisu 20'. As another example, to make your rudder pedals control turning left and right, type 'joyadvaxisr 4'.  
joyadvaxisy | 0 | joystick | set mapping of DirectInput axis Y (typically joystick forward and backward). Allows the joystick to move forward and backward. Valid values: 0 = Axis not used, 1 = Axis is for forward and backward movement, 2 = Axis is for looking up and down (pitch), 3 = Axis is for side to side movement, 4 = Axis is for turning left and right (yaw). Additionally, each axis can be designated as an absolute axis (like a joystick) or a relative axis (like the FPgaming trackball or the WingMan Warrior SpinControl). Absolute axes are defined as having a stopping position whereas relative axes don't have a stopping position and just go around and around. To designate an axis as a relative axis, add 16 to the above control number. For example, to set the Assassin 3D's axis U to be looking left and right, type 'joyadvaxisu 20'. As another example, to make your rudder pedals control turning left and right, type 'joyadvaxisr 4'.  
joyadvaxisz | 0 | joystick | mapping of DirectInput axis Z (typically joystick throttle). Not used.  
joyforwardsensitivity | -1 | joystick | set the ramp-up speed or how much joystick movement is required for moving "full speed" forward and backward (negative numbers invert directions)  
joyforwardthreshold | 0.150 | joystick | set the dead-zone for moving forward and backward (If you have problems with your character moving forward or back when trying to stop or strafe, increase this number to .20)  
joyname | 0 | joystick | set joystick name  
joypitchsensitivity | 1 | joystick | set the speed or ratio used when you look up and down using the Assassin 3D (negative numbers invert directions)  
joypitchthreshold | 0.150 | joystick | set the dead-zone for looking up and down (If you have problems with your character looking up or down when trying to stop or strafe, increase this number to .20)  
joysidesensitivity | -1 | joystick | set the ramp-up speed or how much joystick movement is required for moving "full speed" side to side (negative numbers invert directions)  
joysidethreshold | 0.150 | joystick | set the dead-zone for moving side to side (If you have problems with your character moving sideways when trying to stop or walk along a ledge, increase this number to .20)  
joystick | 0 | joystick | disable joystick (0 may give you a slight performance boost) [Flags: a]  
joywwhack1 | 0 | joystick | set to 1 for Logitech WingMan Warrior, maybe for other models also  
joywwhack2 | 0 | joystick | set to 1 for Logitech WingMan Warrior, maybe for other models also  
joyyawsensitivity | -1 | joystick | set the speed that or ratio used when you look left to right using the Assassin 3D (negative numbers invert directions)  
joyyawthreshold | 0.150 | joystick | set the dead-zone for looking right and left (If you have problems with your character turning when trying to stop or strafe, increase this number to .20)  
kick | <name or userid or uniqueid> | server | kick player from a server (server console or rcon only), Use the 'users' command to get a list of userid's and uniqueid's. See kick, banid, writeid, removeid.  
kill |  | controls | suicide  
lambert | 1.500 | unknown | sets the player model shading value. -1.01 used to make players brighter. No longer has any effect.  
lcd_x | 0 | video | screws up my screen  
lcd_yaw | 0 | video | screws up my screen  
lightgamma | 2.500 | video | set lighting gamma value  
list |  | net | lists local servers found by slist command  
listdemo | <demoname> | demo | list info on demo file  
listid |  | server | list id numbers  
listip |  | server | list ip addresses in the filter ban list  
load | <name> | misc | load a saved game  
loadas8bit | 0 | audio | set to 1 to force 8-bit (lower quality) sounds (see hisound also)  
localinfo |  | server | show local info settings  
log |  | server | enable/disable logging (put 'log on' in autoexex.cfg, NOT server.cfg)  
logaddress | <ip> <port> | server | set address for logfile (to log to a remote machine)  
lookspring | 0 | mouse | enable automatic view centering when +mlook is deactivated [Flags: a]  
lookstrafe | 0 | mouse | enable mouse strafing when +mlook is deactivated [Flags: a]  
lservercfgfile |  | server | set listen server config file (default is listenserver.cfg)  
map | <mapname> | server | change to map half-life\tfc\mapname.bsp (.bsp not required) -- will disconnect any clients on the server, see changelevel and changelevel2 to change maps without disconnecting clients  
mapcyclefile |  | server | specifies the name of the list of maps to cycle through on a server, default is mapcycle.txt  
maps | <substring> | server | list maps containing substring, * lists all  
maxplayers |  | server | set maximum number of clients allowed to connect to the server  
mcache |  | developer | list model cache contents  
messagemode |  | controls | prompt for a chat message to send to all clients connected to the server  
messagemode2 |  | controls | prompt for a chat message to send to your teammates only  
model | 0 | prefs | If modelname is unspecified, this will display the current player model name. To change your player model, specify the name of a folder in Valve/models/player that contains a .mdl file. To view the model, start a multiplayer game and type chase_active 1. [Flags: ai]  
motd |  | server | display the message of the day (motd.txt) for the current server  
mp_allowmonsters |  | server | enable monsters in multiplayer mode (bots) [Flags: sv]  
mp_autocrosshair |  | server | enable aiming assistance for clients [Flags: sv]  
mp_consistency | 1 | unknown | ? [Flags: sv]  
mp_decals | 2000 | server | set max number of decals to display in multiplayer (set lower for perfomance boost, but blast marks and logos will disappear sooner) [Flags: a]  
mp_defaultteam |  | unknown | ?  
mp_falldamage |  | server | enable realistic falling damage [Flags: sv]  
mp_flashlight |  | server | enable flashlights for clients [Flags: sv]  
mp_footsteps | 1 | server | enable footstep sounds [Flags: sv]  
mp_forcerespawn |  | server | enable automatic forced respawns for players [Flags: sv]  
mp_fraglimit |  | server | set the number of frags (by any single player) between map changes, see timelimit [Flags: sv]  
mp_friendlyfire |  | server | enable friendly fire in teamplay mode (mp_teamplay) [Flags: sv]  
mp_logecho | 1 | server | enable logging of echo commands  
mp_logfile | 1 | server | enable logging during multiplayer [Flags: sv]  
mp_teamlist |  | server | ? [Flags: sv]  
mp_teamoverride |  | unknown | ?  
mp_teamplay |  | server | set teamplay mode flags -- set this variable to the sum of the numbers by the options you want enabled: 1=teamplay on (always set this for teamplay mode), 2=half-damage friendly-fire, 4=no damage friendly-fire, 8=half-damage friendly explosive, 16=no friendly explosive damage, 128=half-damage armor friendly-fire, 256=no damage to armor from friendly-fire, 512=half-damage armor friendly explosive, 1024=no damage to armor from friendly explosive, 2048=YOU take half damage from hitting Teammate with direct weaponfire, 4096=YOU take no damage from hitting Teammate with direct weaponfire, 8192=YOU take half damage from hitting Teammate with explosive weaponfire, 16384=YOU take no damage from hitting Teammate with explosive weaponfire, 32768=YOUR armor takes half damage from hitting Teammate with direct weaponfire, 65536=YOUR armor takes no damage from hitting Teammate with direct weaponfire, 131072=YOUR armor takes half damage from hitting Teammate with explosive weaponfire, 262144=YOUR armor takes no damage from hitting Teammate with explosive weaponfire.   
  
A common setting used to deter spamming is 1 + 4 + 16 + 256 + 1024 + 2048 + 8192 + 32768 + 131072 = 175381 [Flags: sv]  
mp_timelimit |  | server | set the time (in minutes) between map changes, see fraglimit [Flags: sv]  
mp_weaponstay |  | server | enable permanent weapons [Flags: sv]  
m_filter | 0 | mouse | enable mouse filtering (smoothing) [Flags: a]  
m_forward | 1 | mouse | set mouse forward speed sensitivity multiplier [Flags: a]  
m_pitch | -0.022 | mouse | set mouse pitch (up and down motion) speed sensitivity multiplier. Note that NEGATIVE values result in an inverted mouse (moving mouse forward looks down), while positive values result in a non-inverted mouse (moving mouse forward looks up) [Flags: a]  
m_side | 0.800 | mouse | set mouse strafing speed sensitivity multiplier [Flags: a]  
m_yaw | 0.022 | mouse | set mouse yaw speed sensitivity multiplier [Flags: a]  
name | 0 | net | set client player name [Flags: ai]  
net_address | 0 | net | ?  
net_chokeloop | 0 | net | ?  
net_drawslider | 0 | net | ?  
net_graph | 0 | net | enables network condition graph that shows FPS, network latency, incoming server update rate, incoming bandwidth, outgoing bandwidth, and a running graph of ping (which is network latency plus delays caused by video rendering). Turn on the net_graph and try different values for the tweaking variables to find the best settings for your system and network conditions. Be sure to turn it back off since it will lower FPS some. [Flags: a]  
net_graphpos | 1 | net | set position of network graph (if net_graph 1). 1=bottom right, 2=bottom center, 3=bottom left [Flags: a]  
net_graphsolid | 1 | net | enable solid graph if net_graph 1 [Flags: a]  
net_graphwidth | 192 | net | set net_graph width [Flags: a]  
net_scale | 5 | net | set net_graph vertical scale [Flags: a]  
net_showdrop | 0 | net | enable display of dropped network packets  
net_showpackets | 0 | net | enable network packet display  
new |  | developer | internal command used to start a new game  
noclip |  | cheats | toggles clipping mode. when clipping disabled (noclip active), you can walk through walls and fly. See the cheats page for details.  
nosound | 0 | audio | disable sounds (1 will make the game silent)  
notarget |  | cheats | toggle notarget mode where enemies ignore the player. See the cheats page for details.  
password | 0 | server | set private server password (0 = public server, anyone can join) [Flags: i]  
path |  | server | display current search path for game files  
pausable | 1 | server | enable whether or not clients can pause server game [Flags: sv]  
pause |  | controls | pause game  
ping |  | server | display name and ping of all clients connected to the server  
pingservers |  | net | display pings of servers in the serverlist  
play | <filename> | scripts | play a WAV audio file designated by filename  
playdemo | <filename> | demo | play the demo in file Half-Life/valve/filename.dem at normal speed (use timedemo to play at max fps and report average fps).  
playvol |  | demo | set demo playback volume  
pointfile | <filename> | developer | try to load maps\filename.pts  
port | 27015 | net | set the default connect port  
ppdemostart |  | unknown | ?  
precache | 1 | prefs | enable pre-loading of all needed files at map start (1 may help skipping/stoppoing problems)  
ptrack |  | unknown | crash the computer (well, mine at least)  
pushlatency | -50 | net | set pushlatency (try around -1/2 to -1 times ping) -- some people say using non-integer values (like -100.0521) reduces lag [Flags: a]  
quit |  | misc | exit to windows without confirmation  
rate | 9001.204 | old | replaced by cl_rate  
rcon | <password> "commands" | server | remote console operation of a server. "commands" can be any console commands or variable settings. is required if the server password variable is set to anything except 0, unless client password variable is set to the same value  
rcon_address | 0 | server | set remote console ip address  
rcon_password | 0 | server | set password for remote console operation  
rcon_port | 0 | server | set remote console port  
reconnect |  | net | reconnect to the current server  
record | <filename> | demo | starts recording demo to Half-Live\valve\filename.dem, see stop  
reload |  | server | reload current map  
removedemo | <demo> <segmt> | demo | remove segment from a demo  
removeid | <userid or uniqueid> | server | Un-ban a user (remove the id from the ban list). See users, kick, banid, writeid, removeid  
removeip |  | server | remove ip from filterban list  
restart |  | server | restarts the current multiplayer map (remove decals, blood, bulletholes, scores, etc.)  
retry |  | net | try reconnecting to the last server four more times (after four failed attempts)  
room_delay | 0 | audio | 3D sound setting  
room_dlylp | 2 | audio | 3D sound setting  
room_feedback | 0.520 | audio | 3D sound setting  
room_left | 0.010 | audio | 3D sound setting  
room_lp | 0 | audio | 3D sound setting  
room_mod | 0 | audio | 3D sound setting  
room_off | 0 | audio | 3D sound setting  
room_refl | 0.900 | audio | 3D sound setting  
room_rvblp | 1 | audio | 3D sound setting  
room_size | 0.060 | audio | 3D sound setting  
room_type | 18 | audio | 3D sound setting  
r_bmodelhighfrac |  | unknown | ? [Flags: a]  
r_bmodelinterp |  | unknown | ?  
r_cachestudio |  | unknown | ?  
r_decals | 4096 | prefs | set max number of blast mark decals in single-player (lower number will improves perfomance some, but decals wil disappear sooner)  
r_drawentities | 1 | developer | enable rendering of entities: 0=no entities, 1=normal entities, 2=no textures, 3=hitbox only, 4=translucent hitboxes  
r_drawviewmodel | 1 | prefs | enable drawing player weapon model (off improves perfomance a bit)  
r_dynamic | 1 | prefs | enable dynamic lighting -- the light reflections glowing objects make on other objects nearby, such as rockets and the flashlight (0 may improve fps)  
r_fullbright | 0 | prefs | enable max brightness, local game only  
r_glowshellfreq | 2.200 | prefs | set the frequency of shimmering on glowing shells around flags and keys  
r_lightmap | 0 | developer | Software rendering mode only -- display only one of the four possible lightmaps (valid values are 0, 1, 2, 3). Useful for viewing range of switched lights  
r_mirroralpha | 1 | video | enable reflective textures (0 may improve performance)  
r_mmx | 1 | prefs | force MMX calculation methods for MMX CPU's (set to 1 if your CPU supports MMX! Any p2 does, as do most newer AMD and Cyrix chips. If using 1 reduces perfomance, set back to 0)  
r_netgraph |  | old | replaced by net_graph  
r_norefresh | 0 | prefs | enable clearing hud and console before redrawing  
r_novis | 0 | prefs | enable drawing underwater polygons (must be 1 for r_wateralpha to work)  
r_shadows | 0 | prefs | enable player shadows (decreases performance and doesn't look that great)  
r_speeds | 0 | prefs | enable display of average fps, draw speed, and polygon info (use to see running FPS info)  
r_traceglow | 0 | prefs | enable inclusion of monsters in glow sprite occlusion checking (1 will decrease perfomance)  
r_wadtextures | 0 | unknown | ?  
r_wateralpha | 1 | prefs | enable alpha blending underwater (r_novis muse be 1 for this to work)  
save | <name> | misc | save the current game (1p only), see load  
say | "text" | scripts | echo text to the screen of all players. A percent sign followed by A, H, or I in the text will be replaced by your player's current Armor, Health, and ID'd player, respectively. For example: say "I have %A armor, %H health, and am staring at player %I" will look like "I have 45 armor, 97 health, and am staring at player CoolGuy".  
say_team | "text" | scripts | echo text to the screen of team members only. A percent sign followed by A, H, or I in the text will be replaced by your player's current Armor, Health, and ID'd player, respectively. For example: say "I have %A armor, %H health, and am staring at player %I" will look like "I have 45 armor, 97 health, and am staring at player CoolGuy".  
screenshot |  | misc | capture the current screen and save to disk  
scr_centertime | 2 | prefs | set how long server messages remain on screen  
scr_connectmsg | 0 | scripts | display "msg" in lower left of screen -- use "" for "msg" to clear  
scr_connectmsg1 | 0 | scripts | display "msg" in lower left of screen -- use "" for "msg" to clear  
scr_connectmsg2 | 0 | scripts | display "msg" in lower left of screen -- use "" for "msg" to clear  
scr_conspeed | 600 | prefs | set the console scroll speed (try 3000 to make it nearly instant)  
scr_ofsx | 0 | scripts | set screen message x-offset  
scr_ofsy | 0 | scripts | set screen message y-offset  
scr_ofsz | 0 | scripts | set screen message z-offset  
scr_printspeed | 8 | scripts | set screen message print speed  
sendents |  | unknown | ?  
sensitivity | 3 | mouse | set mouse sensitivity [Flags: a]  
servercfgfile |  | server | set server .cfg file (default is server.cfg)  
serverinfo |  | server | display server information (variables flagged sv)  
setdemoinfo | <demo> <segmt> info | demo | add info to demo: info = title "text", play tracknum, fade <IN|OUT><FAST|SLOW>  
setinfo |  | server | display model name, color settings, name, rate, and model crc  
setmaster | <ip or hostname> | server | set the master server (server list manager) for the server, see heartbeat  
showinfo |  | net | enable display of all packets  
showpause | 1 | developer | enable pause graphic display  
showram | 0 | developer | enable display of available RAM  
shutdownserver |  | server | shut down the server  
sizedown |  | video | decrease screen size (will increase FPS, won't work on all video cards)  
sizeup |  | video | increase screen size (will decrease FPS, won't work on all video cards)  
skill | 3 | misc | set the skill level (single player, coop)  
skin | 0 | prefs | set model skin (anyone know how to put more than one skin in a .mdl file so we can use this?) [Flags: ai]  
sk_12mm_bullet1 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_12mm_bullet2 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_12mm_bullet3 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_9mmAR_bullet1 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_9mmAR_bullet2 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_9mmAR_bullet3 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_9mm_bullet1 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_9mm_bullet2 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_9mm_bullet3 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_agrunt_dmg_punch1 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_agrunt_dmg_punch2 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_agrunt_dmg_punch3 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_agrunt_health1 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_agrunt_health2 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_agrunt_health3 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_apache_health1 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_apache_health2 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_apache_health3 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_barney_health1 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_barney_health2 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_barney_health3 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_battery1 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_battery2 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_battery3 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_bigmomma_dmg_blast1 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_bigmomma_dmg_blast2 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_bigmomma_dmg_blast3 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_bigmomma_dmg_slash1 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_bigmomma_dmg_slash2 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_bigmomma_dmg_slash3 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_bigmomma_health_factor1 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_bigmomma_health_factor2 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_bigmomma_health_factor3 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_bigmomma_radius_blast1 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_bigmomma_radius_blast2 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_bigmomma_radius_blast3 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_bullsquid_dmg_bite1 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_bullsquid_dmg_bite2 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_bullsquid_dmg_bite3 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_bullsquid_dmg_spit1 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_bullsquid_dmg_spit2 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_bullsquid_dmg_spit3 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_bullsquid_dmg_whip1 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_bullsquid_dmg_whip2 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_bullsquid_dmg_whip3 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_bullsquid_health1 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_bullsquid_health2 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_bullsquid_health3 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_controller_dmgball1 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_controller_dmgball2 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_controller_dmgball3 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_controller_dmgzap1 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_controller_dmgzap2 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_controller_dmgzap3 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_controller_health1 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_controller_health2 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_controller_health3 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_controller_speedball1 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_controller_speedball2 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_controller_speedball3 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_gargantua_dmg_fire1 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_gargantua_dmg_fire2 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_gargantua_dmg_fire3 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_gargantua_dmg_slash1 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_gargantua_dmg_slash2 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_gargantua_dmg_slash3 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_gargantua_dmg_stomp1 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_gargantua_dmg_stomp2 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_gargantua_dmg_stomp3 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_gargantua_health1 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_gargantua_health2 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_gargantua_health3 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_hassassin_health1 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_hassassin_health2 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_hassassin_health3 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_headcrab_dmg_bite1 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_headcrab_dmg_bite2 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_headcrab_dmg_bite3 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_headcrab_health1 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_headcrab_health2 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_headcrab_health3 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_healthcharger1 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_healthcharger2 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_healthcharger3 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_healthkit1 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_healthkit2 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_healthkit3 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_hgrunt_gspeed1 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_hgrunt_gspeed2 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_hgrunt_gspeed3 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_hgrunt_health1 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_hgrunt_health2 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_hgrunt_health3 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_hgrunt_kick1 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_hgrunt_kick2 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_hgrunt_kick3 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_hgrunt_pellets1 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_hgrunt_pellets2 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_hgrunt_pellets3 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_hornet_dmg1 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_hornet_dmg2 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_hornet_dmg3 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_houndeye_dmg_blast1 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_houndeye_dmg_blast2 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_houndeye_dmg_blast3 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_houndeye_health1 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_houndeye_health2 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_houndeye_health3 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_ichthyosaur_health1 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_ichthyosaur_health2 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_ichthyosaur_health3 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_ichthyosaur_shake1 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_ichthyosaur_shake2 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_ichthyosaur_shake3 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_islave_dmg_claw1 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_islave_dmg_claw2 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_islave_dmg_claw3 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_islave_dmg_clawrake1 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_islave_dmg_clawrake2 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_islave_dmg_clawrake3 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_islave_dmg_zap1 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_islave_dmg_zap2 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_islave_dmg_zap3 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_islave_health1 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_islave_health2 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_islave_health3 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_leech_dmg_bite1 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_leech_dmg_bite2 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_leech_dmg_bite3 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_leech_health1 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_leech_health2 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_leech_health3 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_miniturret_health1 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_miniturret_health2 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_miniturret_health3 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_monster_arm1 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_monster_arm2 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_monster_arm3 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_monster_chest1 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_monster_chest2 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_monster_chest3 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_monster_head1 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_monster_head2 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_monster_head3 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_monster_leg1 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_monster_leg2 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_monster_leg3 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_monster_stomach1 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_monster_stomach2 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_monster_stomach3 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_nihilanth_health1 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_nihilanth_health2 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_nihilanth_health3 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_nihilanth_zap1 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_nihilanth_zap2 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_nihilanth_zap3 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_player_arm1 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_player_arm2 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_player_arm3 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_player_chest1 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_player_chest2 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_player_chest3 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_player_head1 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_player_head2 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_player_head3 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_player_leg1 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_player_leg2 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_player_leg3 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_player_stomach1 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_player_stomach2 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_player_stomach3 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_plr_357_bullet1 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_plr_357_bullet2 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_plr_357_bullet3 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_plr_9mmAR_bullet1 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_plr_9mmAR_bullet2 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_plr_9mmAR_bullet3 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_plr_9mmAR_grenade1 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_plr_9mmAR_grenade2 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_plr_9mmAR_grenade3 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_plr_9mm_bullet1 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_plr_9mm_bullet2 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_plr_9mm_bullet3 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_plr_buckshot1 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_plr_buckshot2 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_plr_buckshot3 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_plr_crowbar1 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_plr_crowbar2 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_plr_crowbar3 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_plr_egon_narrow1 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_plr_egon_narrow2 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_plr_egon_narrow3 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_plr_egon_wide1 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_plr_egon_wide2 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_plr_egon_wide3 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_plr_gauss1 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_plr_gauss2 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_plr_gauss3 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_plr_hand_grenade1 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_plr_hand_grenade2 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_plr_hand_grenade3 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_plr_rpg1 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_plr_rpg2 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_plr_rpg3 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_plr_satchel1 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_plr_satchel2 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_plr_satchel3 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_plr_tripmine1 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_plr_tripmine2 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_plr_tripmine3 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_plr_xbow_bolt_client1 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_plr_xbow_bolt_client2 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_plr_xbow_bolt_client3 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_plr_xbow_bolt_monster1 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_plr_xbow_bolt_monster2 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_plr_xbow_bolt_monster3 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_scientist_heal1 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_scientist_heal2 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_scientist_heal3 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_scientist_health1 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_scientist_health2 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_scientist_health3 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_sentry_health1 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_sentry_health2 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_sentry_health3 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_snark_dmg_bite1 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_snark_dmg_bite2 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_snark_dmg_bite3 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_snark_dmg_pop1 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_snark_dmg_pop2 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_snark_dmg_pop3 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_snark_health1 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_snark_health2 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_snark_health3 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_suitcharger1 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_suitcharger2 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_suitcharger3 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_turret_health1 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_turret_health2 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_turret_health3 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_zombie_dmg_both_slash1 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_zombie_dmg_both_slash2 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_zombie_dmg_both_slash3 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_zombie_dmg_one_slash1 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_zombie_dmg_one_slash2 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_zombie_dmg_one_slash3 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_zombie_health1 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_zombie_health2 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
sk_zombie_health3 |  | developer | set single-player game parameter, such as damage done by a certain weapon or attacks by a certain monster (1, 2, or 3 indicates difficulty level) [Flags: 1p]  
slist |  | net | search for local servers, store in serverlist  
slot1 |  | controls | select weapon group 1 (or menu item 1) see use  
slot10 |  | controls | select weapon group 10 (or menu item 10) see use  
slot2 |  | controls | select weapon group 2 (or menu item 2) see use  
slot3 |  | controls | select weapon group 3 (or menu item 3) see use  
slot4 |  | controls | select weapon group 4 (or menu item 4) see use  
slot5 |  | controls | select weapon group 5 (or menu item 5) see use  
slot6 |  | controls | select weapon group 6 (or menu item 6) see use  
slot7 |  | controls | select weapon group 7 (or menu item 7) see use  
slot8 |  | controls | select weapon group 8 (or menu item 8) see use  
slot9 |  | controls | select weapon group 9 (or menu item 9) see use  
snapshot |  | misc | capture screenshot and save to disk  
snapto |  | unknown | ?  
snd_noextraupdate | 0 | audio | disable 'extra' sound system updates -- only try 1 if you have sound problems  
snd_show | 0 | audio | enable display of sounds as they are played  
soundfade | <params> | audio | set sound fade properties (params = <%>[])  
soundinfo |  | audio | display number of: stereo channels, samples, samplebits, speed, DMA, and sound channels  
soundlist |  | audio | display list of all loaded sounds  
spawn |  | developer | internal command; not valid from console  
speak | <word> | misc | say something over the intercom (see console help for the 622 available words), to use in an alias, surround in quotes with no spaces: alias count "speak one,two,three_comma,four,five,six,_period"  
special |  | controls | displays the "special" menu for a class, like +attack2 but lag-resistant (choose menu item with 'menuselect X')  
spectator | 0 | controls | enter spectator mode if enabled [Flags: i]  
spk |  | unknown | ?  
startdemos |  | demo | start playing demos in a loop, see demos  
startmovie | <file> | demo | the commands 'startmovie' and 'endmovie' start and stop recordding to a video stream, that is basically a bunch of bitmap images in a single file. You use the command like this: From the console type in: startmovie then enter a map using the map command from the console. I have had problems starting up the comand while in a map with the current version of half life but not with the origional CD copy. You need to issue the endmoive command to stop it. Note that this takes up a large amount of disk space. Then you need to compile a program called 'mkmovie' in the valve utils from the SDK (see the misc files section), and use this program to extract all the bitmaps from within the single video stream file. Then you use a program such as Adobe Premiere to string them together into an AVI, or mpg if you have the plugins. Be sure to import them such that their duration is only frame. You need a fast computer to do this properly, if not you will get like 15 frames per second, which is fine for most people, and still gets you a useable ingame video stream. If you have a slow pc, be sure to set the avi to 15 frames per second, but if your pc is fast then 24 or 30 frames per second is good too. Thanks to Evan for that info.  
status |  | server | for each client list: user#, frags, name, frame rate, frame latency, ping, drop %  
stop |  | demo | stops recording a demo, see record  
stopdemo |  | demo | stop playing a demo  
stopsound |  | audio | stop playing current sound  
stuffcmds |  | developer | used to initialize client console commands from server  
suitvolume | 0.250 | audio | set HEV suit volume [Flags: a]  
sv_accelerate | 10 | server | set player acceleration [Flags: sv]  
sv_aim | 0 | server | enable aiming assistance for clients [Flags: asv]  
sv_airaccelerate | 10 | server | set in-air acceleration for a server (higher makes it easier to move while flying through the air or jumping, Mario Brothers - style) [Flags: sv]  
sv_airmove | 1 | server | enable clients ability to move in air [Flags: sv]  
sv_allowdownload | 1 | server | enable allowing clients to download maps and decals  
sv_allowupload | 1 | server | enable allowing clients to upload maps and decals  
sv_allow_download |  | old | replaced by sv_allowdownload  
sv_allow_upload |  | old | replaced by sv_allowupload  
sv_bounce | 1 | server | enable bounce pads [Flags: sv]  
sv_challengetime | 15 | server | set time to allow clients to complete connection  
sv_cheats | 1 | server | enable cheats [Flags: sv]  
sv_clienttrace | 1 | server | set client bounding box size (for collisions, not clipping) [Flags: sv]  
sv_clipmode | 0 | server | set client clipping mode [Flags: sv]  
sv_contact | 0 | unknown | ? [Flags: sv]  
sv_failuretime | 0.5 | unknown | ?  
sv_filterban | 1 | unknown | enable ip banning  
sv_friction | 4 | server | set friction [Flags: sv]  
sv_gravity | 800 | server | set gravity (lower is less gravity, higher jumps) [Flags: sv]  
sv_instancedbaseline | 1 | unknown | ?  
sv_lan | 0 | server | enable LAN server mode  
sv_logrelay | 0 | server | ?  
sv_maxrate | 0 | server | set the max data transfer rate in bytes per second for any one client on the server. Setting this to 0 or any value over 10000 defaults to 10000. [Flags: sv]  
sv_maxspectators | 8 | server | set max number of spectators  
sv_maxspeed | 270 | server | set max player speed (for ALL clients) [Flags: sv]  
sv_maxunlag | 0.5 | server | set the maximum number of seconds of lag the server will try to compensate for (if sv_unlag is 1). Suggested values are 0.3 to 0.6. Higher numbers will make high-ping players jump around more as their lag is compensated for.  
sv_maxupdaterate | 60 | server | set the maximum number of times per second to update clients  
sv_maxvelocity | 2000 | server | set max object velocity  
sv_minrate | 0 | server | set the min data transfer rate in bytes per second for any one client on the server. Setting this to 0 or any value under 500 defaults to 500. [Flags: sv]  
sv_minupdaterate | 1 | server | set the minimum number of times per second to update clients  
sv_newunit | 0 | server | ?  
sv_password | 0 | server | set server password [Flags: sv]  
sv_skycolor_b | 0 | server | set sky color blue value  
sv_skycolor_g | 0 | server | set sky color green value  
sv_skycolor_r | 0 | server | set sky color red value  
sv_skyname | 0 | server | set sky texture  
sv_skyvec_x | 0 | server | set sky x-axis orientation  
sv_skyvec_y | 0 | server | set sky y-axis orientation  
sv_skyvec_z | 0 | server | set sky z-axis orientation  
sv_spectalk | 1 | server | enable allowing spectator clients to chat  
sv_spectatormaxspeed | 500 | server | set spectator max movement speed  
sv_spectator_password | 0 | server | set spectator password  
sv_stepsize | 18 | server | set monster and player automatic step-up size (larger values allow auto-climbing of steeper slopes) [Flags: sv]  
sv_stopspeed | 100 | server | set the speed at which the server considers a player as beginning to stop (used for prediction) [Flags: sv]  
sv_timeout | 65 | server | set timeout inactivity limit  
sv_unlag | 1 | server | enable server lag compensation (keep this on and tell clients who prefer it off to use cl_lc 0)  
sv_unlagpush | 0 | server | enable server push lag compensation  
sv_unlagsamples | 1 | server | set the number of client ping samples to average together to determine the ping the server will try to compensate for (if sv_unlag is 1)  
sv_wateraccelerate | 10 | server | set in-water acceleration [Flags: sv]  
sv_wateramp | 0 | server | enable amplified (higher) waves in water; clients can set with gl_wateramp  
sv_waterfriction | 1 | server | set friction underwater [Flags: sv]  
sv_zmax | 4096 | server | set max zbuffer size  
swapdemo | <demo><seg><seg> | demo | swap two segments' positions in a demo  
sys_ticrate | 0.050 | old | GONE: set system ticrate  
s_2dvolume | 0.880 | audio | Maximum volume at which 2D sounds are played. By the nature of the filters being applied to the A3D buffers, they are quieter then their 2D counterparts. Hence it is important to quiet the 2D sounds to normalize volume. Valid range is 0 to 1.0  
s_a3d | 0 | audio | enable A3D support (0 may improve performance) [Flags: a]  
s_automax_distance | 30 | audio | set distance for max sound volume [Flags: a]  
s_automin_distance | 2 | audio | set distance for min sound volume [Flags: a]  
s_blipdir | 0 | unknown | ?  
s_bloat | 2 | audio | A3D 2.0 only. Bloat factor for polygons. This effectively scales each polygon by a certain amount. This is a rough way to fill holes left by unrendered small polygons. [Flags: a]  
s_buffersize | 65536 | audio | set sound buffer size  
s_disable_a3d |  | audio | disabe A3D support  
s_distance | 60 | audio | adjusts the ratio of game units to meters - affecting velocity, positioning, and distance. The higher this number, the closer everything gets (in audio terms). Valid range is 0 to infinity. [Flags: a]  
s_doppler | 0 | audio | adjusts doppler effect - this setting is very sensitive which is why it is disabled by default. Valid range is 0 to 10. [Flags: a]  
s_eax | 0 | audio | enable EAX support (0 may improve performance) [Flags: a]  
s_enable_a3d |  | audio | enable A3D support  
s_geometry | 1 | audio | A3D 2.0 only. enables geometry rendering on/off. When disabled (0), geometry is not processed at all.  
s_leafnum | 0 | unknown | ? [Flags: a]  
s_materials | 0 | unknown | ?  
s_max_distance | 1000 | audio | Maximum distance from the listener before rolloff is no longer applied. Valid range is s_min_distance to infinity [Flags: a]  
s_min_distance | 8 | audio | Minimum distance a source will be from the listener before rolloff is applied to it. Sources with a value lower than s_min_distance will play at full volume. Valid range is 0 to s_max_distance. [Flags: a]  
s_numpolys | 200 | audio | A3D 2.0 only. Maximum polygons to be rendered. Polygons will stop being rendered either when there are no more polygons left or s_numpolys polygons have been rendered. Setting this to 0 is the same as turning s_geometry off. Valid range is 0 to infinity. [Flags: a]  
s_occfactor | 0.250 | audio | A3D 2.0 only. Transmission value of material - the smaller the number, the more occluded the sound is (less sound passes through the material). Valid range is 0 to 1.0  
s_occlude | 1 | audio | A3D 2.0 only. enable sound occlusions.  
s_occ_epsilon | 1 | unknown | ?  
s_polykeep | 1000000000 | unknown | ? [Flags: a]  
s_polysize | 10000000 | unknown | ? [Flags: a]  
s_refdelay | 4 | audio | A3D 2.0 only. Delay between a source and its closest reflection. The higher the delay, the more time it takes between when the source and its first reflection is played. Valid range is 0 to 100. [Flags: a]  
s_refgain | 0.400 | audio | A3D 2.0 only. Adjusts the gain on each reflection, where higher number means louder reflections. Remember very loud reflections could cancel out the effect of HRTFs. Valid range is 0 to 1.0 [Flags: a]  
s_reflect | 1 | audio | A3D 2.0 only. enable sound reflections.  
s_reverb | 1 | audio | enable reverb (0 may improve performance)  
s_rolloff | 1 | audio | Adjusts the rolloff factor; when the rolloff value is increased, the effects of distance are increased: high frequencies are filtered and volume is lowered. Valid range is 0 to 10. [Flags: a]  
s_show | 0 | unknown | ?  
s_showtossed | 0 | unknown | ?  
s_usepvs | 1 | developer | enable use of PVS tables (calculated lists of visible objects based on player position), set to 0 to move around your map without recalculating PVS  
s_verbwet | 0.250 | audio | controls the wet/dry mix of reverbfor A3D only. The higher the number, the more wet (more reverb) the sounds. Valid range is 0 to 1.0 [Flags: a]  
team | 0 | server | enable team mode, see teamX_color and teamX_model [Flags: ai]  
team1_color |  | server | set team1 color, see team  
team1_model |  | server | set team1 model, see team  
team1_name |  | server | set team1 name, see team  
team1_skin |  | server | set team1 skin, see team  
team2_color |  | server | set team2 color, see team  
team2_model |  | server | set team2 model, see team  
team2_name |  | server | set team2 name, see team  
team2_skin |  | server | set team2 skin, see team  
tell | "message" | controls | sends "message" to the console of player "playername" only. unless that player has developer set to 1 or the console open, they won't see it.  
texgamma | 2 | video | set texture gamma level  
tfc_adminpwd |  | server | set TFC administrator password ** not functional ** [Flags: sv tfc]  
tfc_autoteam |  | server | enable forced auto-team selection [Flags: sv tfc]  
tfc_balance_scores |  | server | enable automatic team balancing by score [Flags: sv tfc]  
tfc_balance_teams |  | server | enable automatic team balancing by number of players [Flags: sv tfc]  
tfc_clanbattle |  | server | enable TFC clan battle (tournament) mode [Flags: sv tfc]  
tfc_clanbattle_locked |  | server | enable locked (play) mode if tfc_clanbattle = 1 [Flags: sv tfc]  
tfc_respawndelay |  | server | set respawn delay for TFC games [Flags: sv tfc]  
thirdperson |  | prefs | enable third-person view (see firstperson, chase_cam)  
timedemo | <demo> | demo | play demo HalfLife\Valve\demo.dem at max FPS and report average FPS (see r_speeds, timerefresh, gg)  
timerefresh |  | demo | spin view in place and report average FPS for the spin (see timedemo, r_speeds, gg)  
togglebrowser |  | controls | toggles default web browser  
toggleconsole |  | controls | toggle the console screen  
topcolor | 30 | net | set player model top color [Flags: ai]  
traceralpha | 0.500 | prefs | set tracer bullet alpha component  
tracerblue | 0.400 | prefs | set tracer bullet blue component  
tracergreen | 0.800 | prefs | set tracer bullet green component  
tracerlength | 0.800 | prefs | set tracer bullet length  
traceroffset | 30 | prefs | set tracer bullet offset  
tracerred | 0.800 | prefs | set tracer bullet red component  
tracerspeed | 6000 | prefs | set tracer bullet speed  
tracker | 0 | unknown | ? [Flags: ai]  
unbind | <key> | scripts | remove binding to key   
unbindall |  | scripts | remove all key bindings  
upload |  | net | upload files to server  
uprate |  | old | replaced by cl_updaterate  
user | <name|id#> | server | list for specified user: model colors, name, rate, model crc  
users |  | server | lists user names, userid's, and uniqueid's for all clients connected to the server. Use to find number for kicking/banning problem players. Userid's are assigned serially as users join the server, but uniqueid's are unique numbers assigned to a single user -- use the uniqueid to permanently ban players. See kick, banid, writeid, removeid  
version |  | misc | display build version and exe date/timestamp  
vgui_emulatemouse | 0 | unknown | ?  
vid_d3d | 0 | video | enable Direct3D support (keep this off if your video card supports OpenGL)  
vid_describemode |  | video | display video mode settings  
viewframe |  | video | enable wire-frame display (OpenGL only, not 3dfx)  
viewmodel |  | video | enable model display  
viewnext |  | video | select next model  
viewprev |  | video | select previous model  
viewsize | 120 | video | set view size [Flags: a]  
violence_ablood | 1 | prefs | enable blood (0 will improve perfomance some, but you won't see any blood)  
violence_agibs | 1 | prefs | enable gibs (0 will improve performance some, but you won't see body chunks)  
violence_hblood | 1 | prefs | enable more blood (0 will improve perfomance some, but you won't see as much blood)  
violence_hgibs | 1 | prefs | enable more gibs (0 will improve performance some, but you won't see as many body chunks)  
volume | 0.800 | audio | set game volume [Flags: a]  
v_centermove | 0.150 | prefs | set autocentering threshold (how much the view must move before autocentering kicks in)  
v_centerspeed | 500 | prefs | set autocentering speed  
v_dark | 0 | unknown | ?  
wait |  | scripts | pause for 1 tick in alias or script  
waterroom_type | 14 | unknown | ?  
weapon_357 |  | controls | weapon name for "use " command; selects .357 magnum pistol (not for TFC, see tf_weapon_* for TFC weapon names)  
weapon_9mmAR |  | controls | weapon name for "use " command; selects 9mm Assault Rifle (not for TFC, see tf_weapon_* for TFC weapon names)  
weapon_9mmhandgun |  | controls | weapon name for "use " command; selects 9mm Pistol (not for TFC, see tf_weapon_* for TFC weapon names)  
weapon_crossbow |  | controls | weapon name for "use " command; selects Crossbow (not for TFC, see tf_weapon_* for TFC weapon names)  
weapon_crowbar |  | controls | weapon name for "use " command; selects crowbar (not for TFC, see tf_weapon_* for TFC weapon names)  
weapon_displacer |  | controls | use the displacer weapon (works with or without 'use' command, or with /give cheat) [Flags: opfor]  
weapon_eagle |  | controls | use the desert eagle pistol with laser sight (works with or without 'use' command, or awith /give cheat) [Flags: opfor]  
weapon_egon |  | controls | weapon name for "use " command; selects Egon Gun (not for TFC, see tf_weapon_* for TFC weapon names)  
weapon_gauss |  | controls | weapon name for "use " command; selects Gauss Gun (not for TFC, see tf_weapon_* for TFC weapon names)  
weapon_grapple |  | controls | use the alien grapple weapon (works with or without 'use' command, or with /give cheat) [Flags: opfor]  
weapon_handgrenade |  | controls | weapon name for "use " command; selects Hand Grenades (not for TFC, see tf_weapon_* for TFC weapon names)  
weapon_hornetgun |  | controls | weapon name for "use " command; selects Hornet Gun (not for TFC, see tf_weapon_* for TFC weapon names)  
weapon_knife |  | controls | use the knife (works with or without 'use' command, or with /give cheat) [Flags: opfor]  
weapon_m249 |  | controls | use the m249 machine gun (works with or without 'use' command, or with /give cheat) [Flags: opfor]  
weapon_pipewrench |  | controls | use the pipewrench (works with or without 'use' command, or with /give cheat) [Flags: opfor]  
weapon_rpg |  | controls | weapon name for "use " command; selects Rocket Launcher (not for TFC, see tf_weapon_* for TFC weapon names)  
weapon_satchel |  | controls | weapon name for "use " command; selects Satchel Charge (not for TFC, see tf_weapon_* for TFC weapon names)  
weapon_shockrifle |  | controls | use the alien shockrifle weapon (works with or without 'use' command, or with /give cheat) [Flags: opfor]  
weapon_shotgun |  | controls | weapon name for "use " command; selects Shotgun (not for TFC, see tf_weapon_* for TFC weapon names)  
weapon_snark |  | controls | weapon name for "use " command; selects Snarks (not for TFC, see tf_weapon_* for TFC weapon names)  
weapon_sniperrifle |  | controls | use the sniper rifle (works with or without 'use' command, or with /give cheat) [Flags: opfor]  
weapon_sporelauncher |  | controls | use the alien spore launcher (works with or without 'use' command, or with /give cheat) [Flags: opfor]  
weapon_tripmine |  | controls | weapon name for "use " command; selects Tripmines (not for TFC, see tf_weapon_* for TFC weapon names)  
writeid |  | server | write a list of permanently banned id #'s to .\banned.cfg. See users, kick, banid, writeid, removeid  
writeip |  | server | write ip addresses to halflife\valve\listip.cfg  
zoom_sensitivity_ratio | 1.200 | mouse | set the ratio of normal mouse sensitivity to zoomed-in (alt fire crossbow or .357 in HL, sniper rifle in TFC) mouse sensitivity  
_snd_mixahead | 0.100 | audio | set sound mixahead value (like s_mixahead in Q2), different values may help fix stuttering problems on some sound cards [Flags: a]  

